when you want to say something your
brain
sends a signal to your lungs mouth
tongue
in a moment you pronounce the word
light reflects off objects your eyes
translate it into electrical
impulses and your brain understands what
you're looking at
talking moving seeing breathing
it's all a split-second transfer of
signals going on in your body
now imagine you have not two but
16 billion eyes hands and feet
no your own physical body hasn't changed
at all
but your brain is taking in information
from eight billion other people on the
planet as well
because it's not your brain and mind all
these bodies are controlled
by one common brain it's not as sci-fi
as it sounds collective intelligence
already exists in nature beehives and
ant colonies have a unique ability
to work as one single organism a colony
of insects resembles a working brain
where each individual inside is like a
neuron
so what if evolution created humans
not as independent beings with our own
personal thoughts
known only to us except when we decide
to share them
let's say we're all one big colony
with a single shared brain but for
fun we'll say you're not part of this
unified brain
you're a space traveler and you've just
arrived on earth the dominant life form
is
the human being the first thing that
strikes you
is communication you're talking to a
young guy on the street
we live here he says and abruptly walks
away
in peace and calm a woman riding a bike
zooms past you all the people here
a construction worker shouts from the
roof of a nearby building
work for the common good an elderly lady
says
sitting on a bench you communicate
simultaneously with all people
as if with one person if someone starts
a conversation with you here in the city
then any person on the other side of the
planet
can continue the dialogue eight
billion people on earth know what you're
talking about
right now and know what you look like
as a single organism the entire world
population
is aware of everything happening at any
moment in time
there's no need for phones or texting
you don't need to call and check
up on your friend or relative you know
how they're doing
and they know how you're doing
one person can't do something in secret
from others
it's as if your pinky toe decided to
live an independent life
you'd immediately know about it you
can't plan to take something without
asking
or do someone wrong that person
shares your thoughts you can also forget
about surprising someone with a gift
they already know they were in your head
when you bought it
in ordinary life every person has their
own
inner world secrets mysteries
not anymore here everyone knows
everything about each other because we
are
each other people see the same dreams
no one's hiding anything lies no longer
exist for such a huge organism in the
form of billions of people
there's only one goal prosperity for the
unit
people here don't build monuments to
themselves
they don't create and compete for
hundreds of different brands of
cars phones accessories or clothes
everyone lives like bees in a honeycomb
many of the houses and buildings are
completely identical
for the sake of efficiency but some are
real works of art
beautiful architecture and highly
developed cities
are decorations for the global mind
every resident knows exactly what their
duties are
that person uses a car to deliver cargo
another is walking to an office every
day
others use planes and ships to get their
job done
there are millions of different tasks
and none of them is pointless
if the brain wants a castle the
individuals build it
if the brain needs a spaceship they
create it
many inhabitants work in a power plant
or food factory
so everyone gets all the necessities for
a normal
comfortable life there's no need for
newspapers
or official announcements if scientists
make a discovery
each person on the planet will know
about it instantly
a lot of jobs involve keeping an eye on
the planet and atmosphere
so it doesn't get too dirty it's all for
the good
of the common being if even just
one of the individuals isn't okay anyone
nearby
will do everything possible to help them
think of it like one of your fingers
being weak or hurt
the whole hand can't grasp as strongly
again the unit needs strong healthy
individuals
but it's not all work in business any
brain
likes to relax so people here organize
parties on a planetary scale there's
also
entertainment just not the kind you're
used to
no one makes movies or tv shows
there are no actors or glamorous stars
and what's the point of script writers
or a film crew
if the rest of the planet knows what
it'll be about
and how it'll end before the movie even
comes out
no the main entertainment here is
science
so many resources are thrown into
exploring the planet and space
the entire world holds its breath as a
submarine descends into some unexplored
part of the ocean
what's that a new species never seen
before in the mariana trench
as soon as the scientist sees the
underwater cam
footage the whole planet rejoices at the
discovery
still there are countless jobs connected
to space exploration
the brain strives to find someone
similar
another thinking being an unknown one
improvement and preservation of cities
and nature
it's all top priority so people can work
and study comfortably if you're working
on a book or scientific article
it's much easier to do it in a clean
place
with access to food and water
when you the visitor arrived on this
earth
you were given the most generous welcome
you're the second mind in this world
and you're very interesting to billions
of people
but our collective mind comes with
familiar baggage
the brain of an ordinary person isn't
perfect
you know that feeling when you doubt
yourself or you can't make the right
decision
part of you wants to quit a job you
don't like
and the other part persuades you not to
you constantly go back and forth with
your mind
lost in your own thoughts it can
distract you from work
keep you up at night here these doubts
are projected onto billions of people
and conflicts arise among them
maybe the rooftop worker would rather be
controlling that sub
exploring the ocean depths yes
everyone is needed what they do is just
as important
but we all have preferences right
the collective mind can get upset feel
exhausted
or be desperate we are still human after
all
when this happens the population slows
down
the brain is sluggish production lags
it's as if the whole world is in a fog
but sooner or later this feeling passes
and the collective brain is in a good
mood again
the busy bees return to their usual
routine
progress continues every year
the organism expands more and more
people are born
in the future space and resources may no
longer be enough
that's why setting up camp on a
different planet is a growing priority
the first ships have already been built
they'll send hundreds of thousands of
people to the red planet
as soon as this happens the brain's
horizons will expand
people still on earth will know
everything happening on mars
you've been living on this earth for
many years documenting what you see
this strange but highly efficient human
being but you've also noticed mysterious
creatures living here
they only appear at night live deep
underground
and look just like the rest of the
humans but the oddest thing
is that the eight billion people and
their collective intelligence
don't notice these inhabitants
soon you realize that these creatures
are the subconscious
they hide somewhere deep but at the same
time
they control all those who live on the
surface
as in the ordinary human brain the
subconscious mind
is a mystery here it affects the
emotions
and psyche of every person it may even
be the source of the collective dreams
everyone has
the deepest fears of this species their
unified worries
the being might not be able to explain
why it feels so foggy and anxious
sometimes
the subconscious below is pulling the
strings
or even behavior every memory the brain
makes
all the information it takes in it goes
to those below
they use this information to protect the
species
ever had a gut feeling that you're
making the wrong decision
probably because you've met a similar
situation
and didn't learn from it you don't
remember
but your subconscious does and it's
trying to steer you in the right
direction
all of it above and below preserves the
species
looks like the human being will be just
fine